# Women-Self-Defense-shoe

Now a days, we see a number of cases of harassment of women . These cases occur as less safety measures for women are being used. Most of the cases that we come across mainly occurs at places that are quiet and deserted, where there is no one around to help. And this problem is growing at a very high rate at different places in our country. To prevent this problem we have designed a shoe which will help a women to send a distress message and her live location to some pre- registered phone numbers so that they can come or can arrange some help for the women in danger. The  purpose  of  the  project  is  to  develop  and  design  a  safety device for women  with  high  reliability to prevent harassment of women at a large scale.  In  this  we  used  GSM Module, arduino board microcontroller , GPS tracker ,power circuit. 

The system comprises of sections which describes a quick responding, cost protection system for an individual and especially for women using which a woman in distress can call for help just with the press of a button on the shoes. Self Defense System for women safety is like this for Women. It has the ability to help women with technologies that are embedded into shoes.
The women wearing this shoes , in case of any harassment or when she finds that someone is going to harass, she presses a button that is located on the shoes and location information is sent as SMS alert to a few predefined emergency numbers And soon help is on its way! The system will consist of embedded hardware and software co-designed for this dedicated application. 

This thesis presents the design and implementation of a Shoe for the use of women in danger conditions.  The research described in this thesis was carried out as part of a larger project aimed to demonstrate self-defense and alert systems for women to avoid crimes in alone and badly lit areas. Specific contributions of the thesis include an assessment of the GSM Module and GPS tracking system. Simulation and testing results show the effectiveness of the approach.
